---
layout:     post
title:      "Homework 5"
date:       2016-12-12 11:00:00
author:     "Java Course Staff"
header-img: "img/post-bg-universe.jpg"
header-mask: 0.3
catalog:    true
---

# Homework 5

Deadline: 2017-01-08 20:00
PPT and videos: See Group Files
Report template: [Electronic Report Template](/img/Java_Report_Template.docx)

NOTE: This is your final homework and you are supposed to submit paper & electronic report.

## Objectives

* Analyze important requests/responses using a web debugger, i.e. an HTTP message sniffer. You should focus on av numbers, authors, categories, number of coins, number of favourites, etc.

> The spirit of a crawler is to camouflage a program-generated HTTP request as if it is generated from a browser. So, deciphering HTTP messages is the first and the most important step of building a crawler.

* Store each av number along with its important attributes in your favorite database.

* Find out the top 3 favorite videos for each category.

* Get the URLs of the videos in step 3 **by using apache-httpclient** (perhaps jsoup is needed to parse html pages). Then, download the URLs **via Java IO**. You can simplify this step with www.ibilibili.com .

## Requirements

1. Homework 5 is an individual work.

2. Every JARs you need should be configured in `pom.xml`, which will appear in your project root directory after enabling Maven support.

3. The hand-written report is a brief summary of your electronic report. You are encouraged to write a detailed electronic report, and append a print copy to the hand-written version.

